# 2020/11/25

## Indirect object (I.O.) v.s. direct object (D.O.)

* What is an I.O. pronoun?

  An **indirect object pronoun** is used instead of a noun to show the person or thing an action is intended to benefit or harm, for example, *me* in *He gave* *me* *a book.; Can you get* *me* *a towel?; He wrote to* *me*. [Collins](https://grammar.collinsdictionary.com/spanish-easy-learning/personal-pronouns-indirect-object#:~:text=The%20Spanish%20indirect%20object%20pronouns%20are%3A%20me%2C%20te%2C%20le,usually%20comes%20before%20the%20verb.)

  

* Does a verb necessarily have both a direct an indirect object?

  Note that a verb won’t necessarily have both a direct and an indirect object. [Collins](https://grammar.collinsdictionary.com/spanish-easy-learning/personal-pronouns-indirect-object#:~:text=The%20Spanish%20indirect%20object%20pronouns%20are%3A%20me%2C%20te%2C%20le,usually%20comes%20before%20the%20verb.)

  However, there are always an "implicit" D.O. in these cases. 

  e.g. His parents write to him. (Sus padres *le* escriben.) (write something (D.O.), like a letter, to someone (I.O.))

  ​	   No me (*a* mí) escuchas cuando hablo.

  Note that *a* and *para* are always before the most (?) I.O.s.

  

* Does the noun with *a*/*para* in front of it must be I.O.? (*a*/*para* => I.O.?)

  Unfortunately, no. 

  > Some Spanish verbs like **mirar** (meaning *to look at*), **esperar** (meaning *to wait for*) and **buscar** (meaning *to look for*) take a *direct object*, because the Spanish construction is different from the English. [Collins](https://grammar.collinsdictionary.com/spanish-easy-learning/personal-pronouns-indirect-object#:~:text=The%20Spanish%20indirect%20object%20pronouns%20are%3A%20me%2C%20te%2C%20le,usually%20comes%20before%20the%20verb.)

   @ It is blurred that "the Spanish construction is different from the English." So why nouns after these verbs are I.O.?

  Other examples:

  Su novia lo vista. (visita  *a* Mike)

  *Note that `Leismo` (From [wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Le%C3%ADsmo#:~:text=Le%C3%ADsmo%20(%22using%20le%22),a%20male%20person%20or%20people.))

  > Leísmo ("using le") is a dialectal variation in the Spanish language that occurs largely in Spain. It involves using the indirect object pronouns le and les in place of the (generally standard) direct object pronouns lo, la, los, and las, especially when the direct object refers to a male person or people.
  >
  > 
  >
  > V*eo al chico* ("I see the boy") → *Lo veo* (standard Spanish, with *lo*)
  >
  > *Veo al chico* ("I see the boy") → *Le veo* (*leísmo*, common in Spain; other regions prefer *lo veo*)
  >
  > *Veo el árbol* ("I see the tree") → *Le veo* (not accepted in linguistic prescription — the tree is not a person)

  

* Why does **Gustar** use Indirect Object Pronouns instead of Direct Object Pronouns?

  This is really a thorny question (as least for me!) Look at some examples:

  ```
  Me gusta el cuarto.
  I like the room.
  The room is pleasing to me.
  
  Nos gustan los libros.
  We like the books.
  The books are pleasing to us
  ```

  1) The actual meaning of *gustar* is *please*. Since *to* in *please to s.b* , *s.b.* here is viewed as I.O.

  ​    @ What is the implicit D.O.? (Like is there *please sth to me*?)

  2) This structure is (Object+Verb+Subject) OVS. Really rare. So the verb conjugates with the noun (subject) after it.

  @ 3) Since the subject is at the end, "Yo me gusta el cuarto" is wrong and it should be "A mí me gusta el cuarto."

  

* What is the main difference between I.O. and D.O. in terms of the *form*?

  |               | D.O.    | I.O. |
  | ------------- | ------- | ---- |
  | él/ella       | lo/la   | le   |
  | Ellos / ellas | los/las | les  |

  

## Mexican v.s. Spanish v.s. English

* Homework

  La tarea v.s. los deberes (single vs. pural).

* Sprite

  ~~@ NOT sure yet.~~

  > Hi, Profe. I didn't find the word "esprit", but just "Sprit" (but the pronunciation is /esprite/). So is there "esprit" that pronounce /esprait/, like you said in the class?  